So now that we are able to login
let's make sure we actually do send this request
to a protected resource
so that we see how that authentication token can
and should be used in such cases.
And for this, I wanna stick
to this Firebase auth REST API,
though, of course a protected API end point
could be any kind of end point.
It could be from the Firebase REST API
for talking to that real time database as well.
There you could also end force authentication
through those rules here.
We haven't done this yet,
but you could do that here as well.
But I wanna stick to this basic example
of changing the user password.
And for this we got this extra API end point here
in the Firebase Auth REST API docs.
And it's this URL we need to send the request to.
The important thing here
is that in the request body,
we need to attach such a ID token
that identifies the user
for whom we wanna change the password.
And that makes a lot of sense
because for changing the password,
we need to know which user that is.
And you could of course think that
we could also specify the email address here
instead of the token for identifying a user.
But if that would be the case,
any user who knows that email address
would be able to send such a request to change the password
for that email address;
even if that's not your email address.
And that's of course definitely nothing we want,
definitely nothing to Firebase team wants.
And that's why instead, we need to send this ID token
which we only have after logging in.
And therefore it's now this profile page.
Here's the profile form,
where we get to the user input
where we wanna send such a request.
For this I'll first of all quickly start
by handling this form submission
and gathering that user input.
And uh, for that all again use, useRef here.
Of course, you could also work with state,
instead if you prefer that.
But I'll just quickly get my new password input ref here
with useRef
and then add my submit handler function here,
where I also get the, that event object
and where we then call event
preventDefault as we did it before.
And it's just separate handler, which we bind
to the onSubmit event on that form, like this.
Now in that submit handler
we want to extract the enteredNewPassword the user provided
by reaching out
to the new password inputRef dot current dot value.
And for this, of course
we need to connect this Ref to the input.
So, let's grab that Ref
and bind here to this Ref Prop on the input.
Now, we can add validation here if you want to,
but that's again not the focus of this course section,
and therefore instead I now wanna use that password
to send the request.
We could now send that request here
in this profile form component
or we do it in the user profile component
by basically emitting an event.
So by taking a function as a prop
and calling that function from inside profile form.
But I'll send the request right away here
from insight profile form, and for this,
we need to send the request to this URL.
So let's grab that URL.
And then, again, we can use the fetch function
to send that request.
Again here we also need to API key.
This has nothing to do with the user authentication.
This just identifies the Firebase project,
in which that user is stored.
And of course that API key is that same API key
we used before, here in the auth form,
so we can copy that API key from there.
Alternatively, you can of course store it
in some global constant variable and reuse stat.
But here I'll just copy and paste it again.
Now we do want to send a post request
with some Jason data here to this URL
and therefore I'll set the second argument on fetch,
set the method to 'POST'.
Set the body, to some Jason body with Jason stringify.
And before we add the actual body,
I'll already set my headers to an object
where a content type is set to application Jason.
Now to Jason stringify we can pass it, this object here.
And now that object, which makes up our request body,
should have this ID token field
the new password we want to set
and this return secure token, uh field,
which uh, in this case doesn't have to be true,
but it could be true if we want to get a new token
in response.
So therefore I'll do that.
I'll add this ID token field, that password field
and then thereafter this return secure token field,
which is wanted here.
Now we need that ID token
and that is stored in our context.
So we need use context here
in this profile form component
to tap into our context.
And then we can call use context
as we did it before to then tap into the auth context
which we therefore of course also needs to import.
And then here we get the auth context
from which we can get our token.
Now here, ID token is off context the dot token.
The new password is the entered new password here
and then returned secure token, all set this
to false here and see if that works as well.
Now this sends a request and again,
we can handle success and error cases,
and we definitely would want to check again
if Firebase throws an error
because of the new password is too short.
Then of course, we, again, will fail
to set that password.
Now to keep things a bit simpler here.
Since we already went through that error handling
in the auth form component here, I'll not do it here,
though you can add that, also with a sync await,
and instead here on this input for the password.
I'll just add the built-in min length
attribute and set this to seven here
so that we enforce a minimum password length
of seven characters here by the browser,
which is not the only form of validation
you should rely since this can be disabled
with the Def tools
but it's a basic validation we have here.
Of course you would want to add
proper error handling up here,
but to keep things a bit simpler as mentioned,
I'll just add to this then block where we get the response
and I will simply assume here
that this always succeeds.
Which of course is not realistic
but saves us some time here
to focus on the essence of this module.
And the essence is, that at this point,
we know, since we assumed
that the submitted password is correct.
That changing that password, worked.
So therefore, soon we can redirect the user then
if we want to.
At the moment, I'll not do anything here.
And instead, I'll just save this
and I'll give this a try now.
For that I'll log in again.
So I reloaded the page and I log in again
to ensure that I have a fresh token,
click login, go to the profile
and then I'll enter a new valid password here
and I'll click change password.
Now we don't get any feedback here
for the reasons mentioned,
but if we have a look at the network tab here,
then we see that a request was sent down there,
a post request,
where on the request we sent that token and so on.
And then we got no response back,
uh, probably because I said returns secure token to false.
But we can of course validate wherever that worked
by reloading again and going to the login page.
And now I'll try logging in with that old password
and that fails; I get authentication failed here
and we get this error request
where the respond says invalid password.
And only if I switched to the new password, it works.
So changing the password worked.
And that's how we can use stat token
for requests to authenticated API end points.
Now it will depend on the end point
how the token should be added.
Here we added in the request body.
For other endpoints, you might need to add it
as a query parameter,
like this here, that you add a token query parameter,
which then holds the token.
And for yet our API end points,
you might need to add it in the headers,
maybe with the authorization header
which is something like Bearer,
and then your token.
That is also something you'll often see
for a certain APIs.
So that depends on the API you're using.
If you are building your own API,
you can of course decide
where you expect that token.
If you are working with some third party API
as we're doing it here,
you'll have to check the API docs
to find out how the token should be added.
I mentioned it before, but I'll mention it again.
In my Main course, where we build a full stack application
with react and node and express,
there we also build an API.
So there you also see that other side
and you see how you could also provide the token
with help of the headers.
Here we added in the request body,
and that's how we can now use the token
for such a protected request.